<div style="width:1024px;"> MakerDOA is a company looking to disrupt the lending market. The company was founded in 2015 by Rune Christensen and is based out of New York. Currently, the company is funded with $63 million with big investments coming from Andressen Horowitz, Dragonfly Capital and Polychain. This past year, the company generated $10 million in interest. (Forbes article)

In 2011, Christensen piqued an interest in the bitcoin and blockchain space while working in Asia. Over time, he became disillusioned with the volatility of Bitcoin. This led him to look into stable coins and more specifically BitShares as a community member. Bitshares is a blockchain platform that lets the user convert their cryptocurrencies into other cryptocurrencies that have a value pegged to real assets such as the US Dollar. As a community member for BitShares, Christensen saw fundamental flaws with the strategy of the platform. In an interview with the Epicenter podcast, Rune describes BitShares as a “swiss army knife” which was trying to do too many things without doing one thing particularly well. He also points out that fundamental issues with BitShare. One of these issues being that the stablecoin they produced was based on a single collateral type, being the BitShares asset itself. Christensen believed that this brought in unnecessary risk to the platform in that if the stablecoin failed, the platform would fail as well. (Epicenter Podcast Podcat 1:00-27:00). 

In order to fix some of the strategic issues that Christensen saw recognized in the BitShares platform, Christensen created the MakerDAO. MakeDAO is a lending/borrowing and savings open source platform. It was built on the Etherium blockchain and boasts itself as a Decentralized Autonomous Organization. This platform, which they refer to as the Maker Protocol or Multi-Collateral Dai System (MCD) is disrupting traditional lending and savings in that:
1.	There is no check for credit worthiness
2.	The community of lenders, known as the “Maker Governance”, manages the risk parameters associated with the borrowing process (i.e. interest rates).
3.	Users can lend/borrow completely anonymously.

Now let’s get into the “how” of the Maker Protocol. To fully understand the system, one must first have a fundamental understanding of the two coins the platform utilizes: MKR token and the Dai stablecoin. The MKR token is held by the lender and allows it’s holder a voting share when it comes to lending governance (1 MKR token = 1 vote). According to the MakerDAO website, the Dai coin is, “… a decentralized, unbiased, collateral backed cryptocurrency soft-pegged to the US dollar” (Whitepaper - 1). One can by depositing Ethereum based assets as collateral into Maker Vaults, buying it from brokers or receiving it as payment. MKR holders can adjust risk parameters of loans based on the type of the collateral the loanee uses to generate Dai. 

In order for the loanee to take out a loan, they must take a 150% collateralized debt position at minimum in the form of a smart contract. This means if the user wants to take out a $50,000 loan, they must collateralize $75,000 worth of Dai. The Dai token attempts to keep it’s price at 1:1 with the US Dollar by backing the token with an equal amount of debt. The system automatically increases the stability fee (interest rate) if there is an oversupply of Dai. If the loanee is not satisfied with the stability fee (or just wants to pay off the loan), they can do so by repaying the loan in Dai, and the interest accrued in MKR. The Dai and MKR that are used in this transaction are then burned (taken out of circulation). This created an artificial demand for each coin as supply is lowered. However, if demand for Dai goes up, the platform will release more MKR tokens to balance out the market (CoinDesk 0:00-12:30).

Now to the question of what happens when the user defaults on their agreed upon collateralized debt position of 150%. In this scenario, the system will automatically liquidate the users Ethereum assets and charge a 13% penalty fee. This incentivizes the users to overcollateralize. It also protects the lenders from having the users default on the loan entirely. However, some users take issue with the approach as stability fees have been widely volatile over the past few years. Right now, the stability fee sits at 8.5% but has been as high as 20.5% in 2019. One could secure a credit line at a bank with no up-front collateral at a lesser interest rate in some cases (CoinDesk 0:00-12:30).

The company’s targeted market is speculators in the Ethereum marketplace as well as those looking to secure a loan anonymously. Currently, Ethereum’s market capitalization sits at 14.74 billion. The lack of a credit vetting process is what differentiates MakerDAO from more traditional lending services while the stablecoin is was differentiates the platform from many other cryptocurrencies. MakerDAO then differentiates itself from other stablecoins and cypto-lending services (such as Tether) by making the platform auditable by any user. Also, unlike it’s bitcoin competitor tether, Dai has stayed at a 1:1 ratio with the dollar where as Tether has fluctuated massively from the dollar value. Currently, MKR sits 24th in total market capitalization for all bitcoins ($556,187,922). It’s major competitor, Tether, sits in 3rd with a market capitalization of $21,831,335,846 but has a considerable larger circulating supply (9 billion vs. 1 million). 

The lending space has changed a lot over the past few years with companies such as SoFi, Upstart and Prosper. What all three of these companies have done is take traditional banks out of the process of securing a loan. These companies are innovating by moving forward with peer-to-peer lending as well as looking at factors other than credit score to determine risk parameters (Paine). The advantage these companies have on MakerDAO is lower cost to invest. With MakerDAO requiring a 150% collateralized debt position, they are missing a segment of customers that do not have that money to invest. However, MakerDOA has an advantage in the market of loanees that would like to stay anonymous, given that no personal validation is necessary to secure a loan.

As suggested in the previously, MakerDAO’s pitfall is the high collateral price to secure a loan. Moving forward, the company needs to figure out a way to lower the cost to participate as much of the loanee population does not have the money on hand to support this. As the company sits today, it really seems to only be a viable product for bitcoin speculators. If they could lower or even cut the collateral price all together, they could gain a higher adoption rate from traditional loanees. However, this would be difficult given the anonymity of users as the company would not have an idea of the risk they are taking on when accepting certain loans. As a business they could try to blend in some more traditional loan practices like credit vetting. The technology required for this solution would be building an API to credit bureaus, however, I think that would really go against the anarchical nature of the bitcoin environment.


Works Cited

“Rune Christensen: Maker DAO – The Central Bank of Web 3.0 (#298).” Youtube, uploaded by 	Epicenter Podcast, 30 July 2019, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FW3Sed9mz7Y

“Whitepaper.” MakerDAO, 10 June 2020, makerdao.com/en/whitepaper/#abstract.


“How MakerDAO Works.” Youtube, uploaded by CoinDesk, 29 May 2019, 	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J9q8hkyy8oM

Paine, James. “10 Companies Using Technology to Disrupt the Lending Industry.” Inc.com, Inc., 25 Aug. 2017, www.inc.com/james-paine/10-companies-using-technology-to-disrupt-the-lendi.html.
“MakerDAO.” Forbes, Forbes Magazine, 12 Feb. 2020, www.forbes.com/companies/makerdao/?list=fintech%2F.

</div>